docs/website/content/docs/introduction.md, before:

+++
weight = 100
draft = true
title = "Introduction"
icon = "bookmark"
description = "Resources to use Souin as a middleware in your favorite reverse-proxy"
tags = ["Beginners", "Advanced"]
+++


## What is Souin?

Souin is a powerful HTTP cache system written in go and implements the following RFCs (Request For Comments):
* [RFC-2616](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2616)
* [RFC-7234](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7234)
* [RFC-9111](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9111)
* [RFC-9211](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9211)
* [Cache-Groups (draft)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-cache-groups/)
* [HTTP Cache invalidation (draft)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-nottingham-http-invalidation/)


## Multiple backend storages
### Local in-memory or filesystem
* [Badger]({{% relref "/docs/storages/badger" %}})
* [Nuts]({{% relref "/docs/storages/nuts" %}})

### Distributed in-memory
* [Embedded Olric]({{% relref "/docs/storages/embedded-olric" %}})

### Distributed external services
* [Redis]({{% relref "/docs/storages/redis" %}})
* [Etcd]({{% relref "/docs/storages/etcd" %}})
* [Olric]({{% relref "/docs/storages/olric" %}})


## Fully customizable without learning another language
The default configuration format is YAML (using the standalone HTTP cache server) because it's programmatically generable and easier than the VCL but unlike the VCL it's not a script language.

Commit message:

feat(documentation): add the configuration page

docs/website/content/docs/introduction.md, after:

+++
weight = 100
draft = true
title = "Introduction"
icon = "bookmark"
description = "Resources to use Souin as a middleware in your favorite reverse-proxy"
tags = ["Beginners", "Advanced"]
+++


## What is Souin?

Souin is a powerful HTTP cache system written in go and implements the following RFCs (Request For Comments):
* [RFC-2616](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2616)
* [RFC-7234](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7234)
* [RFC-9111](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9111)
* [RFC-9211](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9211)
* [Cache-Groups (draft)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-httpbis-cache-groups/)
* [HTTP Cache invalidation (draft)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-nottingham-http-invalidation/)


## Multiple backend storages
### Local in-memory or filesystem
* [Badger]({{% relref "/docs/storages/badger" %}})
* [Nuts]({{% relref "/docs/storages/nuts" %}})

### Distributed in-memory
* [Embedded Olric]({{% relref "/docs/storages/embedded-olric" %}})

### Distributed external services
* [Redis]({{% relref "/docs/storages/redis" %}})
* [Etcd]({{% relref "/docs/storages/etcd" %}})
* [Olric]({{% relref "/docs/storages/olric" %}})


## Fully customizable without additional language
The default configuration format is YAML (using the standalone HTTP cache server) because it's programmatically generable and easier than the VCL but unlike the VCL it's not a script language. Refer to the [configuration page]({{% relref "/docs/configuration" %}}) to discover how to configure your Souin instance.
